.TH CLVMD 8 "LVM TOOLS" "Red Hat Inc" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
clvmd \- cluster LVM daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B clvmd
[\-d] [\-h]
[\-R]
[\-t <timeout>]
[\-T <start timeout>]
[\-V]
.SH DESCRIPTION
clvmd is the daemon that distributes LVM metadata updates around a cluster.
It must be running on all nodes in the cluster and will give an error 
if a node in the cluster does not have this daemon running.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-d
Runs in the foreground and prints debugging information (if compiled in) to
stderr. By default, clvmd will fork into the background when invoked.
.TP
.I \-t <timeout>
Specifies the timeout for commands to run around the cluster. This should not
be so small that commands with many disk updates to do will fail, so you
may need to increase this on systems with very large disk farms. 
The default is 30 seconds.
.TP
.I \-T <start timeout>
Specifies the timeout for clvmd daemon startup. If the daemon does not report 
that it has started up within this time then the parent command will exit with 
status of 5. This does NOT mean that clvmd has not started! What it means is 
that the startup of clvmd has been delayed for some reason; the most likely 
cause of this is an inquorate cluster though it could be due to locking 
latencies on a cluster with large numbers of logical volumes. If you get the 
return code of 5 it is usually not necessary to restart clvmd - it will start
as soon as that blockage has cleared. This flag is to allow startup scripts
to exit in a timely fashion even if the cluster is stalled for some reason.
<br>
The default is 0 (no timeout) and the value is in seconds. Don't set this too
small or you will experience spurious errors. 10 or 20 seconds might be
sensible.
<br>
This timeout will be ignored if you start clvmd with the -d switch.
.TP
.I \-R
Tells all the running clvmd in the cluster to reload their device cache and
re-read the lvm configuration file. This command should be run whenever the
devices on a cluster system are changed.
.TP
.I \-V
Display the version of the cluster LVM daemon.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lvm (8)
