.TH LVCHANGE 8 "LVM TOOLS" "Sistina Software UK" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
lvchange \- change attributes of a logical volume
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lvchange
[\-\-addtag Tag]
[\-A/\-\-autobackup y/n] [\-a/\-\-available y/n/ey/en/ly/ln]
[\-\-alloc AllocationPolicy]
[\-C/\-\-contiguous y/n] [\-d/\-\-debug] [\-\-deltag Tag]
[\-h/\-?/\-\-help]
[\-\-ignorelockingfailure]
[\-M/\-\-persistent y/n] [\-\-minor minor]
[\-P/\-\-partial y/n]
[\-p/\-\-permission r/w] [\-r/\-\-readahead ReadAheadSectors]
[\-\-refresh]
[\-t/\-\-test]
[\-v/\-\-verbose] LogicalVolumePath [LogicalVolumePath...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
lvchange allows you to change the attributes of a logical volume
including making them known to the kernel ready for use.
.SH OPTIONS
See \fBlvm\fP for common options.
.TP
.I \-a, \-\-available y/n/ey/en/ly/ln
Controls the availability of the logical volumes for use.
Communicates with the kernel device-mapper driver via
libdevmapper to activate (-ay) or deactivate (-an) the 
logical volumes.
.IP
If clustered locking is enabled, -ae will activate exclusively
on one node and -aly will activate only on the local node.
To deactivate only on the local node use -aln.
Logical volumes with single-host snapshots are always activated 
exclusively because they can only be used on one node at once.
.TP
.I \-C, \-\-contiguous y/n
Tries to set or reset the contiguous allocation policy for
logical volumes. It's only possible to change a non-contiguous
logical volume's allocation policy to contiguous, if all of the
allocated physical extents are already contiguous.
.TP
.I \-\-minor minor
Set the minor number.
.TP
.I \-M, \-\-persistent y/n
Set to y to make the minor number specified persistent.
.TP
.I \-p, \-\-permission r/w
Change access permission to read-only or read/write.
.TP
.I \-r, \-\-readahead ReadAheadSectors
Change read ahead sector count per logical between 2 and 120.
For compatability with LVM1 only. Ignored by LVM2.
.TP
.I \-\-refresh
If the logical volume is active, reload its metadata.
This is not necessary in normal operation, but may be useful
if something has gone wrong or if you're doing clustering 
manually without a clustered lock manager.
.SH Examples
"lvchange -pr vg00/lvol1" changes the permission on 
volume lvol1 in volume group vg00 to be read-only.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lvm (8), 
.BR lvcreate (8),
.BR vgchange (8)
