.TH LVCONVERT 8 "LVM TOOLS" "Red Hat, Inc" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
lvconvert \- convert a logical volume from linear to mirror or snapshot
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lvconvert
\-m/\-\-mirrors Mirrors [\-\-corelog] [\-R/\-\-regionsize MirrorLogRegionSize]
[\-A/\-\-alloc AllocationPolicy]
[\-h/\-?/\-\-help]
[\-v/\-\-verbose]
[\-\-version]
.br
LogicalVolume[Path] [PhysicalVolume[Path]...]
.br

.br
.B lvconvert
\-s/\-\-snapshot [\-c/\-\-chunksize ChunkSize]
[\-h/\-?/\-\-help]
[\-v/\-\-verbose]
[\-Z/\-\-zero y/n]
[\-\-version]
.br
OriginalLogicalVolume[Path] SnapshotLogicalVolume[Path]
.SH DESCRIPTION
lvconvert will change a linear logical volume to a mirror
logical volume or to a snapshot of linear volume and vice versa.
It is also used to add and remove disk logs from mirror devices.
.SH OPTIONS
See \fBlvm\fP for common options.
.br
Exactly one of \-\-mirrors or \-\-snapshot arguments required.
.br
.TP
.I \-m, \-\-mirrors Mirrors
Specifies the degree of the mirror you wish to create.
For example, "-m 1" would convert the original logical
volume to a mirror volume with 2-sides; that is, a
linear volume plus one copy.
.TP
.I \-\-corelog
This optional argument tells lvconvert to switch the
mirror from using a disk-based (persistent) log to
an in-memory log.  You may only specify this option
when the \-\-mirror argument is the same degree of
the mirror you are changing.
.TP
.I \-R, \-\-regionsize MirrorLogRegionSize
A mirror is divided into regions of this size (in MB), and the mirror log
uses this granularity to track which regions are in sync.
.br
.TP
.I \-s, \-\-snapshot
Create a snapshot from existing logical volume using another
existing logical volume as its origin.
.TP
.I \-c, \-\-chunksize ChunkSize
Power of 2 chunk size for the snapshot logical volume between 4k and 512k.
.TP
.I \-Z, \-\-zero y/n
Controls zeroing of the first KB of data in the snapshot.
If the volume is read-only the snapshot will not be zeroed.
.br
.SH Examples
"lvconvert -m1 vg00/lvol1"
.br
converts the linear logical volume "vg00/lvol1" to
a mirror logical volume.  This command could also
be used to convert a two-way mirror with an
in-memory log to a two-way mirror with a disk log.

"lvconvert -m1 --corelog vg00/lvol1"
.br
converts a two-way mirror with a disk log to a
two-way mirror with an in-memory log.

"lvconvert -m0 vg00/lvol1"
.br
converts a mirror logical volume to a linear logical
volume.
.br

.br
"lvconvert -s vg00/lvol1 vg00/lvol2"
.br
converts logical volume "vg00/lvol2" to snapshot of original volume "vg00/lvol1"

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lvm (8),
.BR vgcreate (8),
.BR lvremove (8),
.BR lvrename (8),
.BR lvextend (8),
.BR lvreduce (8),
.BR lvdisplay (8),
.BR lvscan (8)
