.TH LVDISPLAY 8 "LVM TOOLS" "Sistina Software UK" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
lvdisplay \- display attributes of a logical volume
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lvdisplay
[\-c/\-\-colon] [\-d/\-\-debug] [\-h/\-?/\-\-help]
[\-\-ignorelockingfailure]
[\-\-maps] [\-P/\-\-partial]
[\-v/\-\-verbose] LogicalVolumePath [LogicalVolumePath...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
lvdisplay allows you to see the attributes of a logical volume
like size, read/write status, snapshot information etc.
.SH OPTIONS
See \fBlvm\fP for common options.
.TP
.I \-c, \-\-colon
Deprecated.  To be replaced with a more-powerful reporting tool.
Generate colon separated output for easier parsing in scripts or programs.
.nf

The values are:

* logical volume name
* volume group name
* logical volume access
* logical volume status
* internal logical volume number
* open count of logical volume
* logical volume size in kilobytes
* current logical extents associated to logical volume
* allocated logical extents of logical volume
* allocation policy of logical volume
* read ahead sectors of logical volume
* major device number of logical volume
* minor device number of logical volume

.fi
.TP
.I \-m, \-\-maps
Display the mapping of logical extents to physical volumes and
physical extents.
.SH Examples
"lvdisplay -v /dev/vg00/lvol2" shows attributes of that logical volume
and its mapping of logical to physical extents. In case snapshot
logical volumes have been created for this original logical volume,
this command shows a list of all snapshot logical volumes and their
status (active or inactive) as well.

"lvdisplay /dev/vg00/snapshot" shows the attributes of this snapshot
logical volume and also which original logical volume
it is associated with.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lvm (8), 
.BR lvcreate (8), 
.BR lvscan (8)
