.TH LVEXTEND 8 "LVM TOOLS" "Sistina Software UK" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
lvextend \- extend the size of a logical volume
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lvextend
[\-A/\-\-autobackup y/n] [\-d/\-\-debug] [\-h/\-?/\-\-help]
[\-i/\-\-stripes Stripes [\-I/\-\-stripesize StripeSize]]
{\-l/\-\-extents [+]LogicalExtentsNumber |
\-L/\-\-size [+]LogicalVolumeSize[kKmMgGtT]}
[\-t/\-\-test]
[\-v/\-\-verbose] LogicalVolumePath [PhysicalVolumePath...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
lvextend allows you to extend the size of a logical volume.
Extension of snapshot logical volumes (see
.B lvcreate(8)
for information to create snapshots) is supprted as well.
.SH OPTIONS
See \fBlvm\fP for common options.
.TP
.I \-l, \-\-extents [+]LogicalExtentsNumber
Extend or set the logical volume size in units of logical extents.
With the + sign the value is added to the actual size
of the logical volume and without it, the value is taken as an absolute one.
.TP
.I \-L, \-\-size [+]LogicalVolumeSize[kKmMgGtT]
Extend or set the logical volume size in units in units of megabytes.
A size suffix of M for megabytes, G for gigabytes or T for terabytes is
optional.  With the + sign the value is added to the actual size
of the logical volume and without it, the value is taken as an absolute one.
.TP
.I \-i, \-\-stripes Stripes
Gives the number of stripes for the extension.
Not applicable to PVs using the original metadata LVM format.
This is equal to the number of physical volumes to scatter
the logical volume.
.TP
.I \-I, \-\-stripesize StripeSize
Gives the number of kilobytes for the granularity of the stripes.
Not applicable to PVs using the original metadata LVM format.
.br
StripeSize must be 2^n (n = 2 to 9)
.SH Examples
"lvextend -L +54 /dev/vg01/lvol10 /dev/sdk3" tries to extend the size of
that logical volume by 54MB on physical volume /dev/sdk3.
This is only possible if /dev/sdk3 is a member of volume group vg01 and
there are enough free physical extents in it.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lvm (8), 
.BR lvcreate (8), 
.BR lvreduce (8), 
.BR lvchange (8)
