.TH LVRESIZE 8 "LVM TOOLS" "Sistina Software UK" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
lvresize \- resize a logical volume
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lvresize
[\-A/\-\-autobackup y/n] [\-d/\-\-debug] [\-h/\-?/\-\-help]
[\-i/\-\-stripes Stripes [\-I/\-\-stripesize StripeSize]]
{\-l/\-\-extents [+]LogicalExtentsNumber |
\-L/\-\-size [+]LogicalVolumeSize[kKmMgGtT]}
[\-t/\-\-test]
[\-v/\-\-verbose] LogicalVolumePath [PhysicalVolumePath...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
lvresize allows you to resize a logical volume.
Be careful when reducing a logical volume's size, because data in the reduced
part is lost!!!
You should therefore ensure that any filesystem on the volume is
shrunk first so that the extents that are to be removed are not in use.
Resizing snapshot logical volumes (see
.B lvcreate(8)
for information about creating snapshots) is supported as well.
.SH OPTIONS
See \fBlvm\fP for common options.
.TP
.I \-l, \-\-extents [+/-]LogicalExtentsNumber
Change or set the logical volume size in units of logical extents.
With the + or - sign the value is added to or subtracted from the actual size
of the logical volume and without it, the value is taken as an absolute one.
.TP
.I \-L, \-\-size [+/-]LogicalVolumeSize[kKmMgGtT]
Change or set the logical volume size in units in units of megabytes.
A size suffix of M for megabytes, G for gigabytes or T for terabytes is
optional.  With the + or - sign the value is added to or subtracted from
the actual size of the logical volume and without it, the value is taken as an
absolute one.
.TP
.I \-i, \-\-stripes Stripes
Gives the number of stripes to use when extending a Logical Volume.
Defaults to whatever the last segment of the Logical Volume uses.
Not applicable to LVs using the original metadata LVM format, which must
use a single value throughout.
.TP
.I \-I, \-\-stripesize StripeSize
Gives the number of kilobytes for the granularity of the stripes.
Defaults to whatever the last segment of the Logical Volume uses.
Not applicable to LVs using the original metadata LVM format, which
must use a single value throughout.
.br
StripeSize must be 2^n (n = 2 to 9)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lvm (8), 
.BR lvcreate (8), 
.BR lvreduce (8), 
.BR lvchange (8)
