.TH LVS 8 "LVM TOOLS" "Sistina Software UK" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
lvs \- report information about logical volumes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lvs
[\-\-aligned] [\-d/\-\-debug] [\-h/\-?/\-\-help]
[\-\-ignorelockingfailure] [\-\-noheadings] [\-\-nosuffix]
[\-o/\-\-options [+]Field[,Field]]
[\-O/\-\-sort [+/-]Key1[,[+/-]Key2[,...]]]
[\-P/\-\-partial] [\-\-segments]
[\-\-separator Separator] [\-\-unbuffered]
[\-\-units hsbkmgtHKMGT]
[\-v/\-\-verbose] 
[\-\-version] [VolumeGroupName [VolumeGroupName...]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
vgs produces formatted output about volume groups
.SH OPTIONS
See \fBlvm\fP for common options.
.TP
.I \-\-aligned
Use with \-\-separator to align the output columns.
.TP
.I \-\-noheadings
Suppress the headings line that is normally the first line of output.
Useful if grepping the output.
.TP
.I \-\-nosuffix
Suppress the suffix on output sizes.  Use with \-\-units (except h and H)
if processing the output.
.TP
.I \-o, \-\-options
Comma-separated ordered list of columns.  Precede the list with '+' to append
to the default selection of columns.  Column names are: 
lv_uuid, lv_name, lv_attr, lv_minor, lv_size, seg_count, origin,
snap_percent (suppressed if no kernel driver), segtype, stripes,
stripesize, chunksize, seg_start, seg_size.
With \-\-segments, any "seg_" prefixes are optional; otherwise any "lv_"
prefixes are optional.  Columns mentioned in \fBvgs (8)\fP 
can also be chosen
The lv_attr bits are: (o)rigin, (s)napshot, (w)riteable, (r)eadonly,
(c)ontiguous allocation, (n)ext free allocation, fixed (m)inor, (s)uspended,
(a)ctive, device (o)pen.
.TP
.I \-\-segments
Use default columns that emphasize segment information.
.TP
.I \-O, \-\-sort
Comma-separated ordered list of columns to sort by.  Replaces the default
selection. Precede any column with - for a reverse sort on that column.
.TP
.I \-\-separator Separator
String to use to separate each column.  Useful if grepping the output.
.TP
.I \-\-unbuffered
Produce output immediately without sorting or aligning the columns properly.
.TP
.I \-\-units hsbkmgtHKMGT
All sizes are output in these units: (h)uman-readable, (s)ectors, (b)ytes,
(k)ilobytes, (m)egabytes, (g)igabytes, (t)erabytes.  Capitalise to use multiples
of 1000 (S.I.) instead of 1024.  Can also specify custom (u)nits e.g.
\-\-units 3M
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pvs (8),
.BR vgs (8)
