<!-- Page title -->
[[!meta title="Version 2.03.24 - Feature and Bug Fix Release"]]

Version 2.03.24
===============

* **Changes in udev rules, new version of systemd is recommended (256).**
* **When using LVs as PVs these are no longer auto activated!**
* Allow creating VDO device for thin data when creating thin pool.
* More devices can be used as external origin for thin snapshot.
* And [[!toggle text="more"]]

[[!toggleable text="""
Features
-----------------------

* Swap properties like hostname, date and time when swapping LVs.
* Allow thin snapshot taken of thin volume from another pool as external origin.
* Allow chaining of external origins.

### Changes to device handling

* **IMPORTANT:** When `devices/scan_lvs` is enabled found LVs are no longer auto
  activated, must enable `LVM_PVSCAN_ON_LVS` in udev rules (*69-dm-lvm.rules*.)
    * NOTE: It is not recommended to use LVs for PVs. If you have an use case for
      this talk to us, please.
* Changes to devices file are now backed up in */etc/lvm/devices/backup/*.
  Controlled by `devices/devicesfile_backup_limit` configuration option.
* When `devices/use_devicesfile` is set to `0` existing file is renamed to
  *system.devices-unused.YYYYMMDD.HHMMSS* to prevent outdated file to be used
  on reenabling.

### Use VDO device for thin pool's data

New option `--pooldatavdo` during lvcreate or lvconvert allows using VDO as backing device.

More options (`--compression {y|n}`, `--deduplication {y|n}`,
  `--vdosettings STRING`) to control the options are supported by these commands.

Example of converting a *lvol1* to a thin pool with enabled compression and deduplication:

    lvconvert --type thin-pool --pooldatavdo y vg/lvol1 

Changes in command line
-----------------------

* Add *--wipesignature* option controlling signature wiping when converting volume to thin-pool.
* Allow *lvcreate --snapshot* without *{-T|--thin}* option when creating snapshot of a thin volume.
* Allow *--raidintegrity{,mode,blocksize}* options with implicit RAID1 (i.e. when *-m1* is used on command line)

./configure options
-------------------

These changes are for packagers:

* Add `--with-default-event-activation` option controlling default for
  `global/event_activation`. Default value is unchanged. Useful when creating
  builds for testing.
* Add `--with-modulesdir` option.

Changes in udev rules
---------------------

**IMPORTANT:** Rework of udev rules in cooperation with systemd is included in this release.

* `DM_SUSPENDED` and `DM_NOSCAN` are now entirely internal for DM and cannot be used outside of DM rules.
* Upper level rules should consume `DM_UDEV_DISABLE_OTHER_RULES_FLAG` rather than `DM_NOSCAN` and `DM_SUSPENDED`.

Also few more minor improvements:

* Better handling of `DISK_RO` events and suspended devices

"""]]

[[!tag]]
[[!meta date="Thu May 16 12:12:06 2024 +0200"]]
