<!-- Page title -->
[[!meta title="Version 2.03.39 - Feature and Bug Fix Release"]]

Version 2.03.39
===============

* Add atomic leases using Compare and Write (CAW) to lvmlockd.
* Add lvm-index(7), lvm-categories(7) and lvm-args(7) man pages.
* Use temporary activations for integrity, writecache, thin and VDO pool conv
  preventing interference.
* And [[!toggle text="more"]]

[[!toggleable text="""
Other changes
-------------

* Fix `vgreduce --removemissing --force` infinite loop for raid/mirror snapshot.
* Improve RAID LV health report to distinguish 'refresh needed' from 'repair needed'.
* Support `--interval +N` to delay first poll in pvmove and lvpoll.
* Show active cache mode in kernel table line with `lvs -o kernel_cache_mode`.
* Reject lvreduce of CoW snapshot COW store when it would truncate exception data.
* Skip filesystem resize handling for CoW snapshot COW store LVs in lvresize.
* Fix vgsplit to not fail on no active LV on a PV being split to an existing VG.
* Preserve file descriptors with CLOEXEC opened in library constructors.
* Add lvmpolld 'cmd' log keyword to enable verbose lvpoll output.
* Add `activate_lv_temporary()` to consolidate `LV_TEMPORARY` and sync handling.
* Add missing sync in `add_mirror_log()` and `activate_and_wipe_lv_list()`.
* Fix cachevol cmeta/cdata device offsets.
* Fix pofile generation to include SOURCES2 binaries and update xgettext options.

"""]]

<!-- remove the pending tag on release, remove draft tag once editing is complete -->
[[!tag]]
<!--
For old releases add Release Timestamp like this, date from git show $COMMIT is fine.
[[!meta date="Fri Mar 13 21:08:00 2026 +0100"]]
-->
